
Notes : Important Points

-------
> To create image using BuildPacks command is : mvn spring-boot:build-image
> To create image using jib command is : mvn compile jib:dockerBuild
-------
spring.profiles.active=native

Above property indicates that the configuration source is the local file system. When using native profiles, Spring Cloud
Config Server looks for configuration files in the local file system rather than fetching them from a remote configuration
server (e.g., Git).
-------
use encrypt.key in application.yml of configserver to provide functionality of encryption and decryption of external
configuration values. It also exposes endpoints like (/encrypt, /decrypt, POST) which returns encrypted values of given text.
-------
If you are using encrypted values in your configuration files in place of original text then add prefix {cipher} so that
configserver can identify that particular value and decrypt it before sending it back to microservices.
-------
spring.config.import="optional:configserver:http://localhost:9083/"

> use optional if you want to start your application even if it is not able to connect to configserver during startup
-------
> If you added @ConfigurationProperties on top of any class, then no need to add @Component on top of that class.
-------
> In docker compose file, whenever you try to add any environment variable, syntax is all letters should be in capital
letters and . (dot) will be replaced by _ (underscore)
-------
> If 2 services are in same network (containers) they can call each other via service name
-------

<groupid>org.springframework.cloud</groupid>
<artifactId>spring-cloud-config-monitor</artifactId>

> This dependency generates an endpoint /monitor
Please note : This api doesn't come under actuator. This is a rest api that is provided by config server
-------
-------
Login and start the CLI with those commands

hookdeck login --cli-key 2q6zaijt1o3m3ue5jvfmj1vitgk68v8wu5ah8lm88as76t781e
hookdeck listen PORT Source

-------
/actuator/health/liveness
/actuator/health/readiness

to access these health endpoints, some configuration is needed in .yml file. check application.yml file of config server
-------
why there are 2 ports (5672, 15672) defined in the image of rabbitmq?
Ans : There are 2 components : 1 takes care of management of the rabbitmq, other takes care of core activities
-------
-------
-------
15 Factor methodologies
-------------

> One codebase, one application - Each application should have it's own one dedicated codebase. Configuration settings
  should be maintained externally from the application codebase. Multiple deployment can exist across different
  environments, all leveraging the same application artifact, rather than rebuilding the codebase for each environment.

> API first - Adopting an API-first approach during the design phase of a cloud-native application allows other teams
  to build their solutions based on that API when using the application as a backing service. Moreover, internal
  modifications of the API implementation can be made without impacting other applications or teams that rely on it.

  explanation : While building cloud native applications if we follow API-First approach it gives the opportunity to
  other teams to build their solutions based on that API. How..let's say UI team is making use of one of APIs of our
  application, so if we discuss the design of that API during the design phase of our application with other teams like
  what is going to be the request payload and response of that API then other teams that are going to use that API can
  make their solutions based on the request and response of that API. Also, since we have already done all the discussions
  from every perspective while designing the API, there are almost no chances that we will modify the API on later stages
  of the development, so in this way we can avoid impacting other applications or teams that rely on it.

> Dependency Management - It is crucial to explicitly declare all the dependencies of an application in a manifest (like
  and pom.xml) ensure that they are accessible to the dependency manager, which can download them from a central repository.

  Explanation - Rather than using dependency management tools like maven or gradle if we (developers) are managing all
  dependencies ourselves by adding them in the classpath (like we used to do before maven and gradle) then it is going to
  make our application very very complex. So we should make used of dependency management tools like maven or gradle and
  declare all dependencies in manifest file (like pom.xml or build.gradle)

> Design, build, release, run - Codebase progression from design to production involves below stages.
  Design stage  - Determine technologies, dependencies and tools for specific application. It also includes development
                  and testing stages.
  Build stage   - Compile and package the codebase with dependencies, creating an immutable artifact(build). Unique
                  identification of the build artifact is essential.
  Release stage - Combine the build with specific deployment configuration. Each release is immutable and uniquely
                  identifiable
  Run stage     - Execute the application in the designated runtime environment using a specific release.

> Configuration, credentials and code - All those configurations that are going to be different for different environments
  should not be embedded with the code or tracked in the same codebase, except for default configuration which can be
  bundled with the application.